pregnant polar bears are also on notice
at this time of year they're desperate
for seals but seals aren't desperate to
be eaten they have the fat the Bears
need but that fat also allows them to
escape under the ice
this leaves a bear waiting at a
breathing hole hoping a seal will
eventually use it a tactic that works
about one time in every 10 this is one
of the other nine
one time intern is enough though for the
bear and her followers
she can't let the success rate get any
lower if he does that pregnant bears
project is probably hopeless
it's not only herself she has to get
through the winter but two growing
babies up until she sees the Sun again
in spring will she know that she ate
enough fat in the summer
it's a gamble the only way a female can
win it now is to settle into her den and
push her body to the limit
outside the male bears keep on hunting
as the ice sheet expands their travels
to find food will get longer and longer
but to get through their winter the
females will have to travel through time
to save energy for her baby as a female
has to cut her own energy use almost two
nothing special hormones slow her to a
standstill and she goes into a deep
sleep that will last for months she
won't eat drink or defecate she'll just
lie there and get ever thinner
you